This distribution is not really released yet.  I have put it onto my
ftp site so that Henry Harpending could grab a copy to work with.
There are never any guarantees with my software, but this package is
even flakier than usual.

Henry, the new STR confidence region program is in Mmcistr.  To
install the package, first edit Makefile so that the line 

BINDIR = $(HOME)/bin

describes the place you want the software to live.  Then type
"make clean; make depend; make" and let me know
about any errors.  If all goes well, type "make install".

CONTENTS OF THIS DISTRIBUTION.  Entries that end with a '/ are directories,
each of which may have its own README file.  STR will refer to Short
Tandem Repeats, or microsatellites.

README       This file
Makefile     Tells "make" program how to compile and link the programs.
Ci2ptx/      Plot a confidence region using PicTeX.
Data/        Miscellaneous data files used as examples.
Doc/         A directory containing documentation.  See the file 
             there named README.DOC. 
Makemm/      Make mismatch distribution from sequence data
Misc/        Functions used by several main programs
Mmci/        Make a confidence region from sequence or restriction site data.
Mmcistr/     Make a confidence region from STR data.
Mmest/       Estimate parameters from mismatch distribution
Mmgen/       General purpose simulation program
Mmstr/       Mismatch distributions and parameter estimates from STR data.
Normdist/    Normalize mismatch distributions distributions


alloc2d.c    Allocate matrices
charplot.c   Character plot function
ci2ptx.c     Program: ci2ptx
estimate.c   Estimate parameters
getdata.c    Input functions
header.c     Print header
identity.c   Calculate theoretical mismatch distribution
iscoales.c   Coalescent algorithm
lblaxis.c    Make pretty labels for axes
linpk.c      Linpack subroutines translated from fortran
mahal.c      Mahalanobis distance
memstack.c   Memory allocation
ndx.c        Keep track of array indices
simulate.c   Do simulations
testH0.c     Test hypotheses
unirand.c    Random number generasion
csw.mm       Sample data file
dummy.seq    Sample sequence data
mkfig.tex    For making plots with LaTeX


MAKING AND INSTALLING THE EXECUTABLES

If you are working on a Sun Sparcstation running Solaris, you are in
luck because the distribution includes executable files for your
machine.  All you have to do is copy them into a directory within your
search path (e.g. $HOME/bin or /usr/local/bin), type rehash, and you
are ready to go.

If you are not on a Sparcstation, you will have to compile the source
code.  This requires a modern C compiler; the code will not compile
with the old Kernighan and Richie style compilers.

I will assume that your system has a copy of the program make, which
is available on all UNIX systems and also on many others.  If you
don't have make, you will need to construct batch files to automate
the task of compiling and linking the various modules together.

If you have make, proceed as follows:

1. Edit the file "Makefile" and change the definition of BINDIR in the
fourth line.  This line defines the directory into which you want the
executable files to be placed.  On a UNIX machine, reasonable choices
include

    BINDIR = "/usr/local/bin"

or

    BINDIR = "$(HOME)/bin"

Under DOS, you might use

    BINDIR = "\bin"

Just make sure that the directory listed here really exists.

2. On DOS or UNIX machines, make sure that the PATH variable includes
the directory you defined in step 1 above.

3. Type "make" to compile everything (this will take awhile).

4. Run off the manual (see the instructions in the README.DOC file in the
doc directory).

5. To test the system, work through the tutorial chapter of the manual
using the the mismatch data in file "csw.mm".

6. If everything works, type "make install" to copy the executable
files into the appropriate directory.  If the directory defined by
"BINDIR" is in your search path, you will then be able to execute the
modules of Mismatch from any directory.  (On UNIX systems, you may have
to type rehash to help the machine find these new executables.)

DOCUMENTATION

The documentation is in the directory "doc".  Consult the "README.DOC"
file therein.
